Adds Accordion component and patterns (#662)
microsoft/atlas-design: site/src/components/accordion.md

---
title: Accordion
description: The accordion component in the Atlas Design System
template: standard

> # need design to create

Reviewer: Remove entirely figma section, I doubt atlas's figma will be updated any time soon

Author: ✅Updated in both md files

# figmaEmbed: https://www.figma.com/embed?embed_host=share&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.figma.com%2Ffile%2FuVA2amRR71yJZ0GS6RI6zL%2F%25F0%259F%258C%259E-Atlas-Design-Library%3Fnode-id%3D1488%253A35182
classType: Component
classPrefixes:
  - accordion
---

# Accordion

> The Accordion component contains a disclosure widget, where information is only visible when the element is toggled to an "open" state. A Summary or label must be provided using the `<summary>` element.

Reviewer: Accordion is a component groups sections of related content that can be opened or closed. Accordion is built on top of the [`<details>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/details#customizing_the_disclosure_widget) HTML component.

Author: ✅Updated

Reviewer: Can you add a link to `details` please? https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/details#customizing_the_disclosure_widget

## Usage

> Here is an example of a standard `.accordion` usage. By default `<details>` elements are closed on page load and toggle open or closed when the user clicks the `<summary>`.

Reviewer: Here is an example of a standard `.accordion` usage. By default, accordion items are closed and allow multiple items to be open at once.

Author: ✅Updated

```html
<details class="accordion">
	<summary>Accordion header 1</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 1</p>
	</div>
</details>
<details class="accordion">
	<summary>Accordion header 2</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 2</p>
	</div>
</details>
<details class="accordion">
	<summary>Accordion header 3</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 3</p>
	</div>
</details>
```

## Attributes

### Open

> There is an option to have the accordion component load in the expanded state by adding the `open` attribute.

Reviewer: .. adding the `open` attribute to one of the items.

Author: ✅Updated

```html
<details class="accordion" open>
	<summary>Accordion header 1</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 1</p>
	</div>
</details>
<details class="accordion">
	<summary>Accordion header 2</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 2</p>
	</div>
</details>
<details class="accordion">
	<summary>Accordion header 3</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 3</p>
	</div>
</details>
```

> ### Name

Reviewer: In Firefox `name` doesn't work =\ need to figure out a work around this

Author: Looks like they released a fix for this, it isn't in the latest 129.0.2 but will be included in v130. Not sure when that is scheduled to be released.
https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1856460
https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/35447

Author: Found it, being release Sept 3 🎉
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Firefox/Releases/130

Reviewer: Haha lucky you! Still need to keep an eye on it and verify it works soon. Otherwise, we have to figure out another way to make it work consistently throughout all the browsers

Reviewer 2: @jwmunn @ollips It's also worth keeping in mind that it'll take some time for enough Firefox users to update to support `name` - see ["Evergreen" Does Not Mean Immediately Available](https://css-tricks.com/evergreen-does-not-mean-immediately-available/) - and so even when Firefox releases, we shouldn't necessarily *rely* on `name` to guarantee exclusivity.

That said, I think it's worth calling out that we can use `name` as a progressive enhancement -- if a browser version supports `name`, great, but if it doesn't, we wouldn't consider that "broken."

Which brings me to another point, which is should we put in guidance about when exclusivity is appropriate? I think Atlas should *discourage* exclusivity unless there's a really compelling reason why specifically only one `<details>` can be open at a time (where tidiness/compactness would not be a satisfactory reason).

If we had such guidance, it would also be appropriate to add a note about progressive enhancement in there.

Author: Both of the existing implementations currently in docs-ui allow multiple panels to be open at once, I agree that "name" can be a progressive enhancement.

Author: Confirmed it now works in the production latest firefox release 🎉

> Using the `name` attribute, there is an option to group multiple accordion components, which allows only one open panel at a time.

Reviewer: Applying the `name` attribute to all accordion items with the same value will allow opening only one of the items at a time.

Author: ✅Updated

```html
<details class="accordion" name="accordion-group-1">
	<summary>Accordion header 1</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 1</p>
	</div>
</details>
<details class="accordion" name="accordion-group-1">
	<summary>Accordion header 2</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 2</p>
	</div>
</details>
<details class="accordion" name="accordion-group-1">
	<summary>Accordion header 3</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 3</p>
	</div>
</details>
```

## Icon location

> By default the expansion indicator icon is before the summary content. Using the `.accordion-icon-end` class, the icon can be positioned at the end of the summary. The icon is absolutely positioned to remain at the top if Summary content wraps or contains multiple lines.

Reviewer: By default, the expansion indicator icon located before the accordion item's header.  Applying the `.accordion-icon-end` class with change the icon's position to the end of the header.`

Author: ✅Updated

<details class="accordion">
  <summary>Accordion header 1</summary>
  <div class="accordion-content">
  	<p>Accordion panel 1</p>
  </div>
</details>
<details class="accordion border-top">

>   <summary class="accordion-icon-end">Accordion header 2</summary>

Reviewer: two things:
- can you wrap the whole thing into 'html``' so the markup example is visible. also, can remove the first (default) scenario and the `border-top` atomic
- can that class be added to the parent element so it's a little easier to read it and less things to remember where which thing should be assigned

Author: added the missing markup wrapper, removed the first example. The refactor of the arrow position keeps it no outer padding in both start and end positions so it can be added with atomics if desired.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c05105f1-da7a-4cd8-ba3d-5fd5cf86d218)

  <div class="accordion-content">
  	<p>Accordion panel 2</p>
  </div>
</details>

## Sizes

`accordion-sm`/`accordion-lg` modifier classes make the text size and padding a little bigger or smaller than the default.

```html

> <details class="accordion accordion-sm" name="accordion-group-1">

Reviewer: please remove `name` from all examples but where it's explained OR assign different name. I'd prefer removing but up to you

Author: ✅I agree, updated

---
title: Accordion
description: The accordion component in the Atlas Design System
template: standard
classType: Component
classPrefixes:
  - accordion
---

# Accordion

Accordion is a component for grouping sections of related content that can be opened or closed. Accordion is built on top of the `<details>` HTML element.

## Usage

Here is an example of a standard `.accordion` usage. By default, accordion items are closed and allow multiple items to be open at once.

```html
<details class="accordion">
	<summary>
		<div class="accordion-header">Accordion header 1</div>
	</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 1</p>
	</div>
</details>
<details class="accordion">
	<summary>
		<div class="accordion-header">Accordion header 2</div>
	</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 2</p>
	</div>
</details>
<details class="accordion">
	<summary>
		<div class="accordion-header">Accordion header 3</div>
	</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 3</p>
	</div>
</details>
```

## Attributes

### Open

> There is an option to have the accordion component load in the expanded state by adding the `open` attribute to one of the items.

Reviewer 2: Nit, slight rewording, please feel free to disregard:

```suggestion
To load the accordion component in the expanded state by default, add the `open` attribute to the appropriate `<details>` element.
```

Author: ✅Updated since I was already updating other copy.

	</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 1</p>
	</div>
</details>
<details class="accordion" name="accordion-group-1">
	<summary>
		<div class="accordion-header">Accordion header 2</div>
	</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 2</p>
	</div>
</details>
<details class="accordion" name="accordion-group-1">
	<summary>
		<div class="accordion-header">Accordion header 3</div>
	</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 3</p>
	</div>
</details>
```

## Icon location

By default, the expansion indicator icon is located before the accordion item's header. Applying the `.accordion-icon-end` class to the item will change the icon's position to the end of the header.

```html
<details class="accordion">
	<summary>
		<div class="accordion-header">Accordion icon's default position</div>
	</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 1</p>
	</div>
</details>
<details class="accordion accordion-icon-end border-top">
	<summary>
		<div class="accordion-header">Accordion icon's end position</div>
	</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel 2</p>
	</div>
</details>
```

## Sizes

> `accordion-sm`/`accordion-lg` modifier classes make the text size and padding a little bigger or smaller than the default.

Reviewer 2: The reordering of "smaller" or "bigger" is to match the order that the modifier classes themselves are listed in.

> `accordion-sm`/`accordion-lg` modifier classes make the text size and padding a little bigger or smaller than the default.

Author: ✅ Updated copy

```html
<details class="accordion accordion-sm">
	<summary>
		<div class="accordion-header">Small accordion header</div>
	</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel content</p>
	</div>
</details>
<details class="accordion">
	<summary>
		<div class="accordion-header">Default accordion header</div>
	</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel content</p>
	</div>
</details>
<details class="accordion accordion-lg">
	<summary>
		<div class="accordion-header">Large accordion header</div>
	</summary>
	<div class="accordion-content">
		<p>Accordion panel content</p>
	</div>
</details>
```

## Patterns

> This page discusses the component and subcomponents that make up `.accordion`, but it does not prescribe particular patterns. For examples of specific accordion builds, look to the [accordion patterns page](../patterns/accordion.md) for guidance.

Reviewer 2: This is a great disclaimer that I nearly missed because it's at the bottom. Could we find a way to incorporate this in the introductory section?

Author: Moved it up to the intro section.
